--- PAGE 1 ---
This article was downloaded by: [128.122.253.212] On: 08 October 2014, At: 12:02
Publisher: Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS)
INFORMS is located in Maryland, USA
Transportation Science
Publication details, including instructions for authors and subscription information:
http://pubsonline.informs.org
The Traveling Salesman Problem with Pickups, Deliveries,
and Handling Costs
Maria Battarra, G üne ş Erdo ǧan, Gilbert Laporte, Daniele Vigo,
To cite this article:
Maria Battarra, G üne ş Erdo ǧan, Gilbert Laporte, Daniele Vigo,  (2010) The Traveling Salesman Problem with Pickups,
Deliveries, and Handling Costs. Transportation Science 44(3):383-399.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/trsc.1100.0316
Full terms and conditions of use: http://pubsonline.informs.org/page/terms-and-conditions
This article may be used only for the purposes of research, teaching, and/or private study. Commercial use
or systematic downloading (by robots or other automatic processes) is prohibited without explicit Publisher
approval, unless otherwise noted. For more information, contact permissions@informs.org.
The Publisher does not warrant or guarantee the article’s accuracy, completeness, merchantability, fitness
for a particular purpose, or non-infringement. Descriptions of, or references to, products or publications, or
inclusion of an advertisement in this article, neither constitutes nor implies a guarantee, endorsement, or
support of claims made of that product, publication, or service.
Copyright © 2010, INFORMS
Please scroll down for article—it is on subsequent pages
INFORMS is the largest professional society in the world for professionals in the fields of operations research, management
science, and analytics.
For more information on INFORMS, its publications, membership, or meetings visit http://www.informs.org
--- PAGE 2 ---
Vol.44,No.3,August2010,pp.383–399
issn0041-1655 /barSCeissn1526-5447 /barSC10/barSC4403/barSC0383informs®
doi10.1287/trsc.1100.0316
©2010INFORMS
TheTravelingSalesmanProblemwithPickups,
Deliveries,andHandlingCosts
MariaBattarra
DipartimentodiElettronica,InformaticaeSistemica,UniversityofBologna,47521Cesena(FC),Italy,
maria.battarra@unibo.it
Güne¸sEr doˇgan
DepartmentofIndustrialEngineering,Özyeˇ ginUniversity,34662Altunizade, ˙Istanbul,Turkey,
gunes.erdogan@ozyegin.edu.tr
GilbertLaporte
DepartmentofManagementSciences,HECMontréal,Montréal,QuébecJ3T247,Canada,
gilbert.laporte@cirrelt.ca
DanieleVigo
DipartimentodiElettronica,InformaticaeSistemica,UniversityofBologna,47521Cesena(FC),Italy,
daniele.vigo@unibo.it
This paper introduces a new variant of the one-to-many-to-one single vehicle pickup and delivery problems
(SVPDP) that incorporates the handling cost incurred when rearranging the load at the customer locations.
Thesimultaneousoptimizationofroutingandhandlingcostsisdifﬁcult,andtheresultingloadingpatternsarehardtoimplementinpractice.However,thisoptionmakeseconomicalsenseincontextswheretheroutingcostdominates the handling cost. We have proposed some simpliﬁed policies applicable to such contexts. The ﬁrstis a two-phase heuristic in which the tour having minimum routing cost is initially determined by optimallysolvinganSVPDP,andtheoptimalhandlingpolicyisthendeterminedforthattour.Inaddition,branch-and-cutalgorithms based on integer linear programming formulations are proposed, in which routing and handlingdecisions are simultaneously optimized, but the handling decisions are restricted to three simpliﬁed policies.Theformulationsarestrengthenedbymeansofproblemspeciﬁcvalidinequalities.Theproposedmethodshavebeenextensivelytestedoninstancesinvolvingupto25customersandhundredsofitems.Ourresultsshowtheimpact of the handling aspect on the customer sequencing and indicate that the simpliﬁed handling policiesfavorablycomparewiththeoptimalone.
Keywords: thetravelingsalesmanproblem;combinatorialoptimization;exactalgorithm
History: Received:June21,2009;revisionreceived:September12,2009;accepted:December5,2009.Published
onlineinArticlesinAdvance March18,2010.
1. Introduction
Single vehicle pickup and delivery problems
(SVPDPs) have received considerable attentionin recent years (see Berbeglia et al. 2007). Theseproblems consist of designing an optimal routefor a single vehicle making pickups and deliveriesto a set of customers. Here we are interested inone-to-many-to-one SVPDPs in which each customermay have a supply and a demand; all demandsoriginate from a depot and all supplies are destinedto the depot. A minimum cost circuit for which thevehicle load never exceeds the vehicle capacity hasto be determined. One-to-many-to-one SVPDPs haverecently been reviewed by Gribkovskaia and Laporte(2008), who have deﬁned two variants: the SVPDPwith single demands (SVPDP–P/D), i.e., problemsin which customers require only a pickup or only adelivery, and the SVPDP with combined demands
(SVPDP–P&D), i.e., problems in which customersmayreceivecombinedpickupanddeliveryservices.
When the vehicle is rear-loaded, the pickup com-
modities may obstruct the delivery commodities.Theseobstructionissueshavetraditionallybeentakeninto account by forcing the tour to have a suitableshape. For example, the traveling salesman problemwith backhauls (TSPB) is an SVPDP–P/D in whichdelivery customers must be served ﬁrst in the tour,whereas thedouble-path and thelassoare solution
shapessuitablefortheSVPDP–P&D.Thedouble-pathSVPDP, proposed by Gribkovskaia et al. (2007), con-sists of visiting each customer but one twice: thedeliveries are ﬁrst performed, and the pickups arethenmadebytraversingthepathinthereverseorder.The lasso solution shape, proposed by Halskau and
383
Downloaded from informs.org by [128.122.253.212] on 08 October 2014, at 12:02 . For personal use only, all rights reserved. 
--- PAGE 3 ---
Battarra et al.:TheTravelingSalesmanProblemwithPickups,Deliveries,andHandlingCosts
384 TransportationScience44(3),pp.383–399,©2010INFORMS
Løkketangen (1998) and further analyzed by Hoff
and Løkketangen (2006), Gribkovskaia et al. (2007),andHoffetal.(2009),consistsofﬁrstdeliveringcom-moditiestoacustomersubset S,thensimultaneously
picking up and delivering commodities at each oftheremainingcustomers,andﬁnallyvisitingthecus-tomersof Sinthereverseorderfordeliveries.
These problem variants do not consider any rear-
rangement of goods in the vehicle. Solution qualitycan be unsatisfactory whenever the routing cost isdominant with respect to the possible rearrangementcost.Inaddition,anSVPDP–P&Dinwhichcustomersdo not accept to be visited twice cannot be suitablysolved by adopting any of the tour shapes previ-ously presented. Note that the possibility of rear-ranging goods in the vehicle has not previouslybeen considered in related problems (see, for exam-ple, Ladany and Mehrez 1984; Carrabs, Cerulli, andCordeau2007a;Carrabs,Cordeau,andLaporte2007b;Cordeau et al. 2009; Erdoˇ gan, Cordeau, and Laporte
2009; Petersen and Madsen 2009; Petersen, Archetti,andSperanza2010).
In this paper, we introduce, formulate, and solve
a one-to-many-to-one pickup and delivery problem,called the traveling salesman problem with pick-ups, deliveries, and handling costs (TSPPD-H) inwhichthehandlingcostsassociatedwithloadingandunloading operations are taken into account in theobjective function. The TSPPD-H can be deﬁned asfollows.Let G=elparenoriVecommaoriAerparenoribeacompletedirectedgraph,
whereV=elbraceori0ecommaori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaorinerbraceoriis the vertex set and Ais the
arcset.Vertex0representsthedepot,whereasremain-ing vertices V
c=V\elbraceori0erbraceoricorrespond to customers. We
deﬁneAd=elbraceorielparenori0ecommaoriierparenoriecolonori i ∈VcerbraceoriandAr=elbraceorielparenoriiecommaori0erparenoriecolonori i∈Vcerbraceorias
the sets of arcs having the depot as their tail andhead, respectively. Each arc elparenoriiecommaorijerparenori∈Ahas a nonnega-
tive travel time c
ij. Customer i∈Vcrequires eSLalphaiunits
of commodity aand supplies eSLbetaiunits of commodity
b. Both commodities have the same unit dimensions
(for example, boxes or pallets or full and empty con-tainers of the same goods). A vehicle of capacity Q
leavesthedepotwithalldeliveryrequests,visitseachcustomer to possibly deliver commodities of type a
and pick up commodities of type b, and returns to
the depot with all the pickup requests. Because weconsidered rear-loaded vehicles, we follow a last-in-ﬁrst-out (LIFO) loading policy (Pacheco 1997), whichwenowdescribe.
Under a LIFO policy, after picking up a type b
commodity and loading it at the rear of the vehi-cle, the unloading of a type acommodity for the
next delivery operation is obstructed. In such a case,typebcommodities obstructing the delivery should
be unloaded ﬁrst, and reloaded after the delivery oftypeacommodities. We deﬁne an additional opera-
tionas unloading and reloading one unit of com-
modity at a customer location. The time required forone additional operation for commodities aandb
is denoted by h
aandhb, respectively. The optimal
solution for the TSPPD-H is then a Hamiltonian cir-cuit onGthat minimizes the sum of total travel and
additionaloperationtimes.TheTSPPD-His /Nscript/Pscript-hard
becauseitgeneralizesthetravelingsalesmanproblem(TSP).AllapplicationspertainingtotheSVPDP–P/DsandSVPDP–P&Dswithrear-loadingarevalidfortheTSPPD-H if the vehicle load can be rearranged, andhence a potential for cost reduction is permitted. Aspeciﬁc example arises in the management of bicy-cle relocations in public bicycle sharing systems. Inthisapplication,functioninganddefectivebicyclesarecollected from parking locations and often put on alinear rack inside a vehicle. These bicycles are thendelivered to other parking locations or to repair cen-ters,respectively.
Note that we have introduced two types of com-
modities,oneforpickupandonefordeliveries.How-ever, the models and the algorithms we propose arevalid even if each customer is associated with a spe-ciﬁcpairofcommodities.
Theremainderofthispaperisorganizedasfollows.
In §2, we present an integer linear programming for-mulationfortheTSPPD-H.Next,in§3,giventhecom-plexity of the problem, we present some simpler andmore tractable policies for the handling problem andweproposeintegerlinearprogrammingformulationsbasedonthem.In§4,wedescribethecomponentsofanexactbranch-and-cutalgorithmfortheproblem,aswellasabranch-and-cutalgorithmbasedonBendersdecomposition. Computational results are presentedin§5,followedbyconclusionsin§6.
2. Integer Linear Programming
Formulation for the TSPPD-H
As mentioned in the previous section, at each cus-
tomeri∈Vc,eSLalphaiunits of commodity ashould be
unloaded and eSLbetaiunits of commodity bshould be
loaded. In the objective function, we do not con-sider the contribution of these handling operationsbecause the time required to perform them is con-stant and they are unavoidable. On the other hand,the number of additional unloading and reloadingoperations depends on the handling decisions madeatpreviouslyvisitedcustomers.SolvingtheTSPPD-Hrequires the determination of an optimal sequence ofcustomers and of commodity positions on board oneachtraversedarc.
Letx
ijbe a binary variable equal to one if and
onlyifarc elparenoriiecommaorijerparenori∈Aisinthesolution.Numberingthe
possible loading positions in increasing order, start-ing from the rear of the vehicle, let the binary vari-ablesa
k
ijandbk
ijindicate the absence or presence of
a typeaandbcommodity at position k∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori
Downloaded from informs.org by [128.122.253.212] on 08 October 2014, at 12:02 . For personal use only, all rights reserved. 
--- PAGE 4 ---
Battarra et al.:TheTravelingSalesmanProblemwithPickups,Deliveries,andHandlingCosts
TransportationScience44(3),pp.383–399,©2010INFORMS 385
within the vehicle, respectively, when the vehicle is
traversing arc elparenoriiecommaorijerparenori ∈A. The variables rk
iindicate
whether the commodity at position kis involved in
the handling operations at customer i. The last set
of variables vk
irepresents the unit handling costs
in position kat customer i. We note that because
vk
i=/summationtext
j∈Velparenorihaak
ji+hbbk
jierparenorirk
iis not linear, we will appro-
priatelylinearizethisrelation.Fornotationalsimplic-ity, we deﬁne h
/prime=maxelbraceorihaecommaorihberbraceori. A possible TSPPD-H
formulationcanbeexpressedasfollows:
(TSPPD-H)
minimize/summationdisplay
elparenoriiecommaorijerparenori∈Acijxij+/summationdisplay
i∈VcQ/summationdisplay
k=1vk
i−/summationdisplay
i∈VchaeSLalphaiecommaori(1)
subjectto/summationdisplay
j∈Vxij=1ecommaorii∈Vecommaori (2)
/summationdisplay
i∈Vxij=1ecommaorij∈Vecommaori (3)
/summationdisplay
j∈VQ/summationdisplay
k=1elparenoriak
ji−ak
ijerparenori=eSLalphaiecommaorii∈Vecommaori (4)
/summationdisplay
j∈VQ/summationdisplay
k=1elparenoribk
ij−bk
jierparenori=eSLbetaiecommaorii∈Vecommaori (5)
rk
i≤rk−1
iecommaorii∈Vcecommaorik∈elbraceori2ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori (6)
ak
ij+bk
ij≤xijecommaori
elparenoriiecommaorijerparenori∈Aecommaorik∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori(7)
/summationdisplay
j∈Vak
ij−/summationdisplay
j∈Vak
ji≤rk
iecommaori
i∈Vcecommaorik∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori(8)
/summationdisplay
j∈Vak
ji−/summationdisplay
j∈Vak
ij≤rk
iecommaori
i∈Vcecommaorik∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori(9)
/summationdisplay
j∈Vbk
ij−/summationdisplay
j∈Vbk
ji≤rk
iecommaori
i∈Vcecommaorik∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori(10)
/summationdisplay
j∈Vbk
ji−/summationdisplay
j∈Vbk
ij≤rk
iecommaori
i∈Vcecommaorik∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceori(11)
vk
i≥/summationdisplay
j∈Velparenorihaak
ji+hbbk
jierparenori−elparenori1−rk
ierparenorih/primeecommaori
i∈Vcecommaorik∈elbraceori1ecommaorieperiodorieperiodorieperiodoriecommaoriQerbraceoriecommaor
